Hello everyone and welcome to part four of CSSA level 1 we will actually be doing any coding for this
lecture.
Instead we'll just be getting a tour of the Google Chrome browser Inspektor which is a really useful
tool for us to actually explore the TMLC assess and even later on javascript on a Web site.
So go ahead and open up Google Chrome and let's start exploring.
OK so here I am at Google Chrome and I have the part three that HVM mail file from last time which is
linked to the part 3 C Ss open up in my browser and then in another tab I have the Google home Web site.
What I want you to do is with the three Rached female file open you can right click and previously you
seen how we can view page source and that shows just the HCM mail that's linked to this document.
But what I want to do now is instead of just viewing the page source which is just the HTL I can right
click on this and click on inspect.
And now let me zoom in a little bit.
I can see that here on this panel.
I have the HTL code.
So that's what we've seen before and stuff gets highlighted as I select that psoas I select H-3.
I can see that H-3 over here is highlighted.
And you can also see that there is almost like a bit of a border around that some parts blue some parts
orange.
We're going to be discussing that later on.
But what I really want to focus on here is the styles since we're talking about C Ss so we can bring
this tab over and here I can actually see the styles that I was assigning to that CSSA So second div
is a class where the color is red.
Now what's really cool about this is you can actually click on some of these things and edit them.
So if you begin to zoom out so we can see the whole thing click on color red and you can actually change
this color in real time.
So if you want it to be blue you can see right here on the second div..
It's actually changing.
So we can make it something extreme.
Can just make it any color of the rainbow we want great and other things we can do is select an element
inspect it.
So for instance here on NPR we can see now that it's an ally a.
And we could see that border in color.
So again we can change the color or we can even change other properties in real time.
So photo make this order super thick you can see that I'm changing it in real time as I type this or
how I want to make it dotted and sort of solid.
I could do that as well.
All right.
So there's two reasons why I want to show you this.
One reason is that if you're working on a Web site you can immediately just load it up start inspecting
it and quickly change things on the fly so you can see how things look and change them immediately without
having to constantly refresh your Web site.
You can just play out the colors here live instead of constantly refreshing.
But the more useful tool on this is actually exploring other Web sites.
So for example you come here to this Google home page and if you're interested in how something works
or what is going on maybe you right click inspect and you can click on this little tool which is select
an element in the page to inspect that.
So click here on the Google search button.
And now we can see the various styles that have to do with it so you can see it has a color we can change
that color if we want.
So we see here we're changing the font of the actual Google search that we changed as something green
or blue etcetera.
Something to note here is the only thing I'm changing is what I'm seeing in my browser.
If I refresh this page I'm not actually changing any of the files or any of the SS files.
But again you can play around with this maybe make the font huge.
So Google search et cetera.
And as we approach javascript and learn how to work with the DOM which we haven't talked about yet but
we will in the future will see how we can actually use javascript to grab some of these elements and
then affect them.
But right now I just want you to be aware of the Chrome browser and Specter as a really great tool for
you not just to explore your own web sites but other peoples web sites as well.
OK.
That's really it for this lecture.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.
We'll hop back in the C S and start coding again.